a_new_component.md, before:

# A new component

In this chapter we will write a whole new component. It will allow us adding an item to the todo list. It will be composed of the HTML elements `input` and `button`.

We'll use Angular-CLI to generate all the needed files and boilerplate for us. In the terminal run:

```cmd
ng g c input -it
```

As we've seen before, `ng` is the command for using Angular-CLI. `g` is a shorthand for `generate`. `c` is a shorthand for `component`. `input` is the name we give to the component. `-it` is shorthand for `--inline-template`.

So the long version of the command is:

```
ng generate component input --inline-template
```

> You can avoid using `-it` each time you generate a components by setting inline templates as a default in the configuration file `angular-cli.json`.

> Don't worry about the component name `input`. It will not replace HTMLs `input` element. That's thanks to the prefix that Angular-CLI gives to our components. The default prefix is `app`, so the component selector would be `app-input`. If you've created the project stating the prefix of your choice, or changed it afterwards in the file `angular-cli.json`, this will be the prefix of the selector. When we created the project we set the prefix to "todo", so the selector should be `todo-input`.

Let's take a look of what Angular-CLI created for us.

It created a new folder called `src/app/input`. There are three files there:

* `input.component.css` - this is where the style that's specific to the component will be placed.
* `input.component.spec.ts` - this is a file for testing the component. We will not deal with it on this tutorial.
* `input.component.ts` - this is the component file where we will define its template and logic.

Open the file `input.component.ts`. You can see that Angular-CLI has generated a default template for us:

```js
template: `
    <p>
      input Works!
    </p>
  `,
```

It has also added the selector according to the name we gave to the component, with the prefix we configured:

```js
selector: 'todo-input',
```

We can use this component as is and see the result!

Open the root component file, `app.component.ts` and add the todo-input tag anywhere inside the template:

```js
template: `
  <h1>
    {{title}}
  </h1>

  <todo-input></todo-input>
`,
```

Check what's new in the browser!

We will add some content to our new component. First, add a `title` member which we will use as the todo item title:

```ts
export class InputComponent implements OnInit {
  title: string = '';
  ...
```

It will not interfere with the `todo-root` component's `title`, since each component's content is encapsulated within it.

You can give an initial string to the title, like we did in the `todo-root` component.

Next, add an input element, a button, and a binding to the title, to the template:

```html
<input>
<button>Save</button>
<p>The title is: {{ title }}</p>
```

Check out the result!

This component doesn't do much at this point. In the next chapters we will learn about the component class, and then implement the component's logic.

Commit message:

Remind mentee to have a new terminal tab for cmd

a_new_component.md, after:

# A new component

In this chapter we will write a whole new component. It will allow us adding an item to the todo list. It will be composed of the HTML elements `input` and `button`.

We'll use Angular-CLI to generate all the needed files and boilerplate for us. In the terminal run:

```cmd
ng g c input -it
```

> Note that you need to open a new terminal (window or tab) in order to execute
> a new command. Inserting the command above to the shell where `ng serve` runs
> won't have any effect.

As we've seen before, `ng` is the command for using Angular-CLI. `g` is a shorthand for `generate`. `c` is a shorthand for `component`. `input` is the name we give to the component. `-it` is shorthand for `--inline-template`.

So the long version of the command is:

```
ng generate component input --inline-template
```

> You can avoid using `-it` each time you generate a components by setting inline templates as a default in the configuration file `angular-cli.json`.

> Don't worry about the component name `input`. It will not replace HTMLs `input` element. That's thanks to the prefix that Angular-CLI gives to our components. The default prefix is `app`, so the component selector would be `app-input`. If you've created the project stating the prefix of your choice, or changed it afterwards in the file `angular-cli.json`, this will be the prefix of the selector. When we created the project we set the prefix to "todo", so the selector should be `todo-input`.

Let's take a look of what Angular-CLI created for us.

It created a new folder called `src/app/input`. There are three files there:

* `input.component.css` - this is where the style that's specific to the component will be placed.
* `input.component.spec.ts` - this is a file for testing the component. We will not deal with it on this tutorial.
* `input.component.ts` - this is the component file where we will define its template and logic.

Open the file `input.component.ts`. You can see that Angular-CLI has generated a default template for us:

```js
template: `
    <p>
      input Works!
    </p>
  `,
```

It has also added the selector according to the name we gave to the component, with the prefix we configured:

```js
selector: 'todo-input',
```

We can use this component as is and see the result!

Open the root component file, `app.component.ts` and add the todo-input tag anywhere inside the template:

```js
template: `
  <h1>
    {{title}}
  </h1>

  <todo-input></todo-input>
`,
```

Check what's new in the browser!

We will add some content to our new component. First, add a `title` member which we will use as the todo item title:

```ts
export class InputComponent implements OnInit {
  title: string = '';
  ...
```

It will not interfere with the `todo-root` component's `title`, since each component's content is encapsulated within it.

You can give an initial string to the title, like we did in the `todo-root` component.

Next, add an input element, a button, and a binding to the title, to the template:

```html
<input>
<button>Save</button>
<p>The title is: {{ title }}</p>
```

Check out the result!

This component doesn't do much at this point. In the next chapters we will learn about the component class, and then implement the component's logic.
