# Property binding

We now have our input component, but it does not do much. We want to make it alive.

Let's make the input control text reflect the value of the `title` property.

This is how our input component looks now:

```javascript
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'todo-input',
  template: `                           
    <input>
               
    <button>
      Save
    </button>
    
    <p>The title is: {{ title }}</p>    
  `,  
  styleUrls: ['./input.component.css']  
})    
export class InputComponent implements OnInit {
  private title: string = 'My First Todo Title !!!';           

  constructor() { }                     

  ngOnInit() {
  }
}
```

We use interpolation to present to present the value of the `title` property: `{{ title }}`

Angular then presents the value of `title` each time that our todo input component is shown.

What if we want to show the title value inside the HTML input control itself?

Every `input` element has a property called `value`, which holds the string that is displayed inside the `input` box. In HTML we can pass a string directly to the element's `value` attribute:

```html
<input value="Hello World">
```

But we loose the dynamic binding of between the properties in the controller to the template.

Angular 2 lets us bind properties to the template easily and conveniently. We saw that with interpolation. Now we'll see how to bind to an **element's property** (not to be confused with class properties...). **We surround the wanted property with square brackets and pass it the class member**:

```html
<input [value]="title">
```

## Change Detection

Angular has a very efficient change detection mechanism. It looks for bindings in the components' templates, and then updates the value each time the bound expression is changed.

To show this, let's change the value of the title after a few seconds and see what happens. Call the `setTimeout` function inside `ngOnInit`:

```ts
ngOnInit() {
  setTimeout(() => {
    this.title = 'This is not the title you are looking for';  
  }, 3000);
}
```

`setTimeout` is a JavaScript function. Its first parameter is what we want to happen - a function of our choice. The second parameter is how much we want to delay it, in milliseconds. In this example, we pass an inline anonymous function which sets the value of `this.title`. For this we use one of JavaScript's new features (ES6) **arrow function**.
 
## Binding to Methods
The expressions that we can bind to in the template are not limited to class properties. They can be a method call or almost any other valid JavaScript expression.

For example, let's bind the input value to a method call that returns a value.
First, let's add the method `generateTitle()` anywhere inside the class, but not inside any of its methods. The best practice is to have our custom methods under the lifecycle methods (`ngOnInit` in this case).

```ts
generateTitle(): string {
  return 'This title was generated by a method.';
}

```

Replace one or both of the bindings of the title in the template with the method's call (don't forget the parenthesis!):
```html                    
  <input [value]="titleGenerator()">
  
  {{ titleGenerator() }}
```

So for now, we have our input control show the title of our todo in it. We now want to make the input change the value of the title back by entering value in it and pressing enter. How to do that? Let's go to the next chapter and find out...

## Resources

[Angular Guide - Template Property Binding](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/template-syntax.html#!#property-binding)

### Note about accessing the DOM

Using regular JavaScript, we can insert the value to the input via its properties. We'll fetch the element from the DOM and assign the value of the member `title` to the element's `value` property.

```javascript
let inputElement = document.getElementById('#my-input');
inputElement.value = this.title;
```

In JavaScript, we find the input element in the DOM by its id, and then set its `value` property to the value of the title variable. We need to add the id to the `input` element then:

```html
<input id="my-input">
```

Excellent.

However, **this is highly discouraged in Angular 2. You should never access the DOM directly!**  
That's because you can assign different renderers to Angular and run the application on different platforms. They may be mobile, desktop, or even a robot. And they will not have a `document` object from which you can manipulate the result!


